[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
We are broadcasting
from Denver, Colorado.
So I'm going to give you a
few quotes from my guest, Mike
Dooley, his new book called "The
Top 10 Things Dead People Want
to Tell You."
In other words, if
dead people could talk,
this is what they would say.
They would say, we're not dead.
We are here.
We are ready for
this, but you're not.
I'm paraphrasing a
few of them here.
Your dreams really
can come true.
These sound like
the things that I
would want to hear from my
best friend, much less somebody
who has crossed over.
Joining me is international
bestselling author,
Mike Dooley.
He has over 600,000 people on
his Notes From the Universe.
These are free postings that
come in your email box right
at the right time,
just as if Mike's
looking over your shoulder.
So great to have you here.
Thank you so much
for joining me.
>>MIKE DOOLEY: Thanks
Lisa, great to be here.
>>LISA: Well, tell
me first of all
about the Notes
for the Universe,
because they are
so wildly popular,
and 600,000 people receive
those every single day.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
>>LISA: What is your
ritual in writing those?
Where do you come up
with these really great
poignant, timely phrases?
>>DOOLEY: Well,
in the beginning,
I wanted to receive
something like this.
I started writing at a
really low time in my life.
I was looking for my place.
We had just
liquidated a company.
And they were just simply
motivation from Mike,
notes from Mike
in the beginning.
And those were never as
popular as when I finally
capitulated to
this inner feeling
of writing from the
universe's perspective.
Because I could then
say more and let it
be more impactful if it was
the universe, rather than
some dude, Mike,
who is he anyway,
writing to complete
strangers around the world.
And once I started
writing as the universe,
I saw the levity, the fun of it.
It's not something I
take overly seriously.
I'm not the mouthpiece--
>>LISA: For the universe.
>>DOOLEY: It's
exploded in popularity.
And I have developed kind of
a writing style ritual, if you
will, that's similar
or parallels what I
teach in "Deliberate Creation."
Number one, all
manifestations come
about when you have
an end result in mind,
and you act on it.
And so for one minute,
prior to writing,
I get into this zone of like,
woo-hoo, I love my life.
That's the best
note I ever wrote.
This is so much fun.
Because writing for a
writer isn't always fun.
And you're like,
there's a blank screen.
What am I going to say?
How do I say it different?
>>LISA: This just
happened in my life.
How do I forget that?
>>DOOLEY: Exactly.
So instead of
visualizing, I'm writing,
which is messing with the
cursed how, I advise whatever
it is you want,
life transformation,
abundance, pain
free living, imagine
that it's already happened.
So I imagine that I've already
written this really great note,
instead of imagining, today,
I'll write about gratitude.
That's boring.
So this end result then
kind of presses the
how's, the means,
the inspiration,
to me, that is released and
discovered when I act on it,
just like any dream coming true.
You command the universe,
you command miracles,
if you will, for abundance,
for a career that you would do,
or whatever it is you're
after, by the end result.
Because with the end result,
the universe instantly
knows how, given all of
your other priorities,
and 7 billion co-creators,
the universe is like,
I know how to do that.
But then you need put yourself
in a place of receivership
for that transformation, whether
it's moving towards a partner,
or abundance, or in this case,
a note from the universe.
So taking action
comes from actually
writing the first stuff that
comes to mind, which always
sucks, which always is bad.
And in parallel, the baby
steps towards any dream,
they always seem futile.
They always seem pathetic.
They always seem like, I
dream of champagne and caviar,
and here I'm going to a
job I hate at the mall.
It's like, go.
Just be reachable.
That's why we have to
take these baby steps.
And by baby steps, they're the
first words to come to mind.
And then, when you
take action, it
breeds clarity in
life and in writing.
And suddenly, you
have a new angle,
a new thought, let
me delete this,
let me move this here,
let me cut and paste,
let me start over.
And then, I'm in a place of
like, woohoo, I love that note.
>>LISA: You did it.
And then you sign it
from the Universe.
>>DOOLEY: I sign it
from the universe.
And it does work.
It gives me an ability to
say things that mere mortal
Mike really wouldn't say.
Believe in yourself.
You're pushed onto greatness.
Your thoughts are 10,000
times-- positive thoughts
are 10,000 times more powerful
than your negative thoughts.
If I sign that Mike--
>>LISA: Like, who is Mike?
>>DOOLEY: But as the Universe,
you're like, well, yeah,
that resonates with me.
Woo.
>>LISA: That's great.
Do you ever feel like you
channel these, or bring them
in from the divine?
>>DOOLEY: I call it
conscious channeling.
I don't know if that
has much meaning.
But no, I don't
go into this zone,
as some channelers, where a
greater, higher self comes
through, and then
I wake up, and I'm
like, wow, what just happened?
But consciously,
I'm aware of it.
I wrangle with it.
I have intuition.
I have these feelings.
And I surprise myself with
what I write sometimes.
And I think it is channeling,
but not as most people define
channeling.
>>LISA: So let me back up a
few steps before you started
the Notes From the Universe.
What were you doing, and what
got you started on this path?
Because it definitely
wasn't always this way.
It wasn't always Notes
From the Universe.
>>DOOLEY: Well, way
back when out of school,
I was a certified public
accountant for Price Waterhouse
for six years.
I wanted more.
I wanted to be an entrepreneur,
so I sold-- not knowing
what I'd do, I quit.
Kind of forced
the circumstances.
Teamed up eventually with
my brother and mother,
and we launched type t-shirts,
Totally Unique T-shirts,
upon which was my brother's art
and my inspirational writings
about life, dreams,
and happiness.
>>LISA: PricewaterhouseCooper.
That's a huge-- I mean,
nobody leaves that situation
without really a reason.
What was the reason?
>>DOOLEY: It was unusual,
to say the least.
I got into
PricewaterhouseCoopers,
or I got into public
accounting, because I
wanted to have a rocking life.
I was drawn to the business
world as a student,
as a teenager.
My uncle was an entrepreneur.
And all of the wise folk,
grown-ups in my life
said, you know, if you want
business world, if you want
to have a rocking
entrepreneurial life,
get an accounting degree, but
don't get stuck in accounting.
That's what they all said.
And so, I though,
all right, I like
math, so I got accounting
degree and became
a certified public accountant.
But it was to the
ends of me being
very deliberate and conscious
about shaping my life
and fortunes.
And after six years, and no one
came along and swept me away
off my feet, oh, you're the
guy we need for our company,
I thought, sheesh, I'm
going to be here forever,
stuck in accounting.
Which is an awesome profession,
particularly in that realm,
but it wasn't me.
So it wasn't that hard
to see that it wasn't me.
And since no one came
along and rescued me,
I was like, I'm quitting.
I'm just going to quit, force
the deal, trust life's magic.
And within a few
months, teamed up
with Andy, my
brother, and my mother
and launched a t-shirt company.
Which was slow going.
I thought I made the
biggest mistake of my life.
But within a year, we
were gathering momentum.
Within two, we did a
million dollars annually
for the next eight years.
>>LISA: Oh, my gosh.
On a t-shirt company?
>>DOOLEY: Oh, yeah.
We sold them all over the world.
>>LISA: Full-on t-shirt company.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
It was t-shirts, gifts, apparel.
We branched into
absolutely everything.
>>LISA: I got some of
your greeting cards, which
were really beautiful.
Those are great too.
So you took this
company to another level
and came up with this TUT.
TUT.
So TUT became, other
than Totally Ultimat--
>>DOOLEY: Totally
Unique T-shirts.
>>LISA: Unique T-shirts to?
>>DOOLEY: Well, it then evolved
into Totally Unique Thoughts
as we broadened spectrum
of what we made available.
But by the eighth from the
year we started, the trends
were declining, it wasn't fun.
We had bought Mom out.
Andy and I were at
each other's throats.
And we thought, you know, if we
liquidate now, even though it
would be pennies on the
dollars remaining inventory,
we'd still be ahead financially.
And then we could
individually figure out
what we'll do with
the rest of our lives.
And so we did that.
And that brought on
the most harrowing,
terrifying, unpleasant
time of my life.
I was almost 40.
I was faced with
starting over, but didn't
know what I'd be starting.
They talk about the light
at the end of the tunnel.
I had no tunnel.
>>LISA: No tunnel.
Wow.
>>DOOLEY: It was
really, really bad.
And that's when I wished I could
receive random motivation vis a
vis this new thing
called the internet,
because it was new
in the 1990s to me.
And since nobody was sending
it out that I knew of,
I thought you know,
maybe those people who
signed our store's guest
books and left their email
addresses wouldn't
mind hearing from me
on the nature of reality,
the same kind of stuff that
was on the t-shirts.
>>LISA: That's how you started.
>>DOOLEY: That's how I started.
>>LISA: The list in the '90s.
Oh, my goodness.
That's amazing.
You really had some
foresight there.
>>DOOLEY: Well, you
know, like Al Gore, who
invented the internet, I
thought it would go places.
I joke.
>>LISA: [LAUGHING] You did that.
We'll take a look
here at Mike talking
about thoughts becoming things.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-How many of you have
heard the expression,
be careful of what you wish for,
because you just might get it?
Hands?
You've all heard it.
Now, how many of you
also believe it's
true to at least some degree?
Be honest.
OK, then.
How many of you
have therefore given
considerable time,
energy, or thought
to figuring out just how
or why it could be true?
Fortunately, having
a mother who's
always inspired me to
be a big time dreamer,
I have thought about it.
And I've come to the
conclusion that there is indeed
a principle at play in the
universe that turns wishes
into reality.
It's the exact same principle
that powers positive thinking.
And it's the very
same principle that
explains why visualizing
is an exercise practiced
around the world.
It's even encouraged in our
basic toast masters manual.
In three simple words,
that principle is this.
Thoughts become things.
And I don't mean
it figuratively.
I mean it literally.
Thoughts become things.
Not sometimes, but all the time.
And not just our positive
thoughts, but the other ones
too.
Because it's an
immutable law, as rigid
and predictable as gravity.
Now, I've known about this
principle my entire adult life.
And actually, while I'm
not really all that old,
I've had some
amazing experiences
with it, my favorite of which
began just two years after I
graduated from college.
I was working for
Price Waterhouse,
and it took me two years
with PW to finally get myself
in a position
where I could begin
thinking about thriving
in the real world
instead of just surviving.
And one of the things I did
to help me think thoughts
about thriving in
the real world was
I created a little scrapbook.
And in the scrapbook,
I put pictures
I had taken from magazines
of things that I wanted,
like a nice watch, a fancy
car, a condo, a house.
And I also put in this
scrapbook pictures
of foreign destinations that
one day, I'd like to visit.
London, Paris, Hong Kong, Tokyo.
And I used this
scrapbook to help
me visualize every conceivable
detail of my dreamed of life.
Well, I did this visualizing
experiment every single day
for a couple of weeks, and
nothing seemed to happen.
After just a couple of
months, every single day,
nothing seemed to happen.
In fact, it was almost
a full year later
when one day, I went to
work as I always did,
and for the first time,
learned that Price Waterhouse
every year sends a few
select people overseas
on foreign assignments.
Six weeks later , I was
living in sunny Saudi Arabia.
[LAUGHTER]
Which to a couple of
you here might not
sound like a dream come true.
And I have to admit, I
had not spent any time
visualizing myself living
in the Middle East.
Never even heard of Riyadh
six weeks prior to making it
my home.
But I had been visualizing
my dreamed of life,
and I don't think anything
else could have taken me there
quicker at that point in my life
than this 18 month tour of duty
to Saudi Arabia.
Because while I was there,
I earned a very considerable
hardship bonus, and I
accrued three months
paid time off to go wherever
and whenever I wanted.
And during those three months,
I went to every city and country
on God's green earth
that I had ever
dreamed of going
throughout Africa, Asia,
the Far East, the South Seas.
And my heart nearly
missed a beat one morning,
having breakfast at the regent
hotel in Kowloon, Hong Kong,
when I looked up
from over my coffee
through the two-story plate
glass wall that surrounded me,
and saw the exact same
view of Hong Kong Island
that I had cut and pasted into
my little scrapbook just two
years earlier.
I could go on and on
to, sharing with you
more fantastic stories,
and some really sad ones,
all illustrating how my
thoughts had become the things
and events of my life.
But you know who else
could do that, don't you?
Every single one of
you here, because it
is an immutable law that
governs all of our lives,
whether we know about it or not.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: OK.
So you have a very
unique way of looking
at things from a very different
perspective, like the universe,
or like dead people.
You somehow get into
this perspective
of these enormous non-entities.
So this book, "The Top 10 Things
Dead People Want to Tell You,"
is brilliant.
>>DOOLEY: Thank you.
>>LISA: It's really,
really brilliant.
Because it's all the wisdom
that people who've passed over
would come back in and say
it's on a channel to book
it's not that.
But it seems to bring in
such incredible wisdom.
Tell me about-- yeah,
it's really beautiful.
>>DOOLEY: The book, like
the Notes From the Universe,
give me a platform to share
what has stirred in me for
as long as I can remember.
I've always been almost obsessed
with reality, who we are,
how we got here.
As a teenager, a pre-teenager,
I would toss out things
to my mom, like time and
space have to be illusionary.
They can't be real.
God has to be in all of us.
There can't be a
hell or a devil.
These ideas don't have
any logic behind them.
And my ambition all my life
was to take these truths that
literally stirred in my
veins, and use them to have,
selfishly, a rocking life.
But as things turned and
twisted, we just talked about,
I found myself 15 years
ago like, now what
am I going to do?
And I became, I guess,
this spout of truths.
I would call them truths.
I'm not the only one that
have stumbled upon them.
Countless others have.
But they gave me a platform.
And when I went
from Notes From Mike
to Notes From the Universe,
they became really popular.
Because I really do feel
like life is knowable.
There are absolute truths.
They're not little
fuzzy, gray, everyone
has their own truth, boom,
there goes your power.
With regard to who we
are and how we got here,
there is no grey area, and it
doesn't matter what a million
people say.
We are of the eyes and
the ears of the divine.
We are here by choice.
We are pushed onto greatness.
Our positive thoughts
are more powerful
than negative thoughts.
And these are the things
that just gush out
of me all the time,
and that I mull over
from every single angle with
the greatest amount of glee.
And it was a Note From
the Universe that was once
titled about three
years ago, just
on a whim I had this idea,
after my little woohoo exercise,
I wrote something that
was like, "And That's
What the Dead Want You to Know."
And it was like, oh,
let's work with this.
That's fun.
And it ended up
being, Lisa, at these
are the top 10 things dead
people want to tell you,
with a little other fanfare.
I forget how the
note actually went.
And ba doom, ba doom, ba doom,
it became a super popular note,
posted on all kinds of
blogs, all over the internet.
>>LISA: It went viral.
>>DOOLEY: And I
thought, you know?
That would be a cool, cool book.
And the 10 things would be
10 chapters of the book.
And when I sat down with Hay
House for the very first time,
I just kind of lightly talked
about this secret ambition
to write a book about what the
dead people would tell you.
Because it would
give me a platform
to talk about the
absolute truths of life--
>>LISA: That you have found.
>>DOOLEY: That I have
found that I truly
believe the dead
have died to tell us,
in a manner of speaking.
Because they have a
heightened vantage
point, the old souls at least.
Not the new souls.
They're still chasing demons,
no doubt, on the other side,
and getting ready
for their next turn.
But the dead would want us
to know that they're well.
That everything's OK.
It's OK to let go,
to stop the grieving,
to celebrate their life, and
begin enjoying your life.
Because from where
they are, they
can see these absolute truths.
They can see that life
is a banquet, where
we get to choose our
thoughts, thoughts
that will then become things.
And on and on and on.
>>LISA: The one
about, we're OK, it's
we are ready to die,
basically, but you're not.
That is beautifully said.
No one left behind is
ready for them to go.
It doesn't matter if
you know that your loved
one has been sick or not.
It's never the right time.
It's like, it's never the
right time to have a baby.
You're never prepared for
the amount that it is.
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
>>LISA: So that's a
beautiful perspective
and comforting to those
who've lost loved ones.
If they were to come back
around and say, we're fine.
>>DOOLEY: It would be the
greatest soothing balm
imaginable for all of us
who have lost loved ones.
Because in these
primitive times that we
chose to be alive, primitive
spiritually speaking,
we are hardwired using our
physical senses virtually alone
to interpret reality,
ourselves, our journeys.
And when someone's gone to
the physical senses, I mean,
it's beyond devastating.
I mean, gone forever.
Gone to where?
Why?
And it appears,
since we're not clued
into the mechanics of
all manifestations,
it often appears random.
It appears accidental, which
brings about feelings of like,
if only, and if I
didn't take the train,
if I told him I loved
him one more time.
That those opportunities
are lost forever,
and none of that's true.
It's just our
physical senses, which
are the biggest liars
in the universe,
although they serve
a valuable service--
>>LISA: For survival.
>>DOOLEY: --time and space.
And they make the
adventures possible.
And they grip us
with our passions.
And they fill us
with excitement.
And they give us
a reason to live.
So there's a point to living in
the lies and misunderstanding.
But when we take it
so far unnecessarily,
to believe that the
things can happen
by chance and without meaning,
and that there's no order,
it's even more devastating
to lose someone.
So they want you to
know-- and I talk
through the various chapters
about understanding accidents,
and that there is no such thing,
however random they appear,
up here and understanding
that life is fair,
no matter how unfair
circumstances will seem to be.
And when you get these
enter glimpses of reality,
you then realize that they
didn't die, that all is well,
that order is being followed,
perfection and love abound,
and that it's still our
turn on stage, which is
what they most want us to know.
Because if you're still here,
even with stage four cancer,
you're not ready.
It is not your time.
Otherwise, you'd be gone.
When it's your
time, you're gone.
>>LISA: You're gone.
>>DOOLEY: You know,
it's just like that.
And that may seem
naive to viewers
right now who are only
using their physical senses,
but there's so much
more that we can
tap into using our inner
senses, using simple deduction,
just connecting
some dots, as I do
in the book, that
can give this comfort
and excite us with the time
that remains in our own lives.
Because we're going
to see them all again,
and we'll be together
forever and ever and ever.
But right now, may hay,
they want to tell you.
This is it.
You know, you've got
every opportunity
to discover every truth, and
live your grandest, best,
most joyful life.
>>LISA: So they say you
can create your dream.
>>DOOLEY: Dreams do come true.
>>LISA: I love that.
>>DOOLEY: There is a process,
and it is identifiable.
And we bear witness and truth
to it in our lives all the time.
>>LISA: So if we were to
imagine our ancestors,
or our past loved
ones saying, go,
do it, do that thing
you've been wanting to do,
they're like
cheerleaders for us.
>>DOOLEY: Absolutely.
Our biggest cheerleaders.
They adore us, and
they want nothing
more than a smile on our face.
And they see now what
they missed in life,
and they realize we don't
have to be so blind or naive.
>>LISA: What a perspective.
>>DOOLEY: Thoughts
become things.
Define what you want in
terms of the end result,
not how you're
going to get there.
Brain's too small to
do all the logistics.
And then in spite
of the futility,
the seeming futility,
of it, act on it,
do something, baby
step every day.
Show up, and prepare
to be astounded.
>>LISA: Now, even where it comes
to someone who in this lifetime
was very sick, very ill,
once they crossed over,
your perspective is they
come at you with fervor,
with excitement, with that
cheerleader perspective.
What about-- OK, so there
was it chilling note
that you wrote in the book from
a son who committed suicide,
and the note was to his brother.
And we can't talk about
it without crying,
but it's very deep.
That was very deep.
So where did you
come up with that?
>>DOOLEY: After
every chapter, there
is a letter from a dearly
departed to someone back
home to kind of make
it real, the lessons
of that chapter,
which at times had
to be a little bit esoteric.
And that chapter that
that letter concludes
was, there is no hell
and there is no devil.
And too often, we are
taught the exact opposite,
and we're further taught
their loved ones who
choose to end their life
are met with brimstone,
and condemnation, and judgement.
So I wanted to achieve a number
of things with that letter.
First and foremost, to let
them know there is no hell,
there is no devil.
That was a bunch of malarkey
designed by people with agendas
to scare the masses
through manipulation.
>>LISA: Correct.
>>DOOLEY: Would a loving God put
anyone under any circumstances
into hell for eternity,
or would a loving God
so great that He could hang
the stars in the night sky,
create 100 million spectacular
species on this Earth,
wouldn't that God
be wise enough to be
able to rehabilitate anyone?
And wouldn't that God
be accountable enough
to accept responsibility for
all of his or her children's
behavior?
All of this is easy to kind
of deduce, and eliminate
this fictitious notion
of hell and the devil.
So that was first and foremost.
But then, life is a classroom
as well as a playground.
And we're here with free will.
And what I wanted
to illustrate was
that those on the other
side with enough altitude,
so to speak, through
experience as
opposed to new souls who are
on the other side frantically
trying to create revenge, and
rush back into the jungles--
because no doubt
that would happen.
Those with the
wherewithal to see more
clearly realize-- and
they're shown undoubtedly.
Why wouldn't they be?
God adores us there.
There are angels.
There are intermediary
counselors and helpers.
Show them that they
could have handled
their funk, their dilemma,
their crises in a different way
other suicide.
And their rehabilitation begins.
But they are welcomed home.
They are loved.
They are adored.
We all are.
And so that was the point there.
And I go to great lengths
throughout the book to say,
yeah, there's no devil,
or hell, and it is super
awesome on the other side.
But there's also
a line of people
waiting to get back
into these most
awesome, glorious, magnificent
jungles of time and space.
And so my book is
no excuse for anyone
to end their life prematurely.
And I go to great lengths
to cover that face as well.
>>LISA: And in the letter,
he apologized to his mom
for taking his life, and
forgave her for the life
that she created for him.
If that were to be
real, I mean, that
was such a deep perspective
to look from, Mike.
You have this
unbelievable ability
to look from an outer
perspective that
isn't in this world.
It's really beautiful.
Let's take a look here at
Mike talking about the book.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-The title for my upcoming
book, "The Top 10 Things
Dead People Want to Tell
You," came about, actually,
as a Note From the Universe.
And I was going through
my normal process
to come up with what
the day's note would be.
And somehow, I had
this flash in my mind,
something like dead
people want to tell you,
or that's what dead
people want to tell you.
Just a fleeting thought.
And it turned into
"The Top 10 Things
Dead People Most
Want to Tell You."
And it was a Note
From the Universe.
And they were, I think,
not predictable things.
It wasn't, believe
in your dreams,
and it wasn't, have courage, and
it wasn't anything like that.
Some of it was common,
like we're not dead.
But not so common,
we were ready.
No matter who, no matter how,
no matter when, they were ready.
Number three is,
you're not ready.
Number four is, because of what
I teach day in and day out,
dreams can come true.
Of course, the chapters
go into great detail
in each of these topics.
The idea of dead people having
something to share really
is kind of obvious if you
believe there's an afterlife.
And poll after poll,
throughout the United States
and the world, has
indicated that most people
do believe in an afterlife.
Unfortunately, they just
kind of stopped there,
and they don't know
what to expect.
I think we can know a
lot about what to expect.
The point being, if you
believe in an afterlife,
you believe that we survive the
demise of our physical bodies.
You know, what's
going to be going on?
Well, can you imagine
discovering not only
that you survived, but
you're alive and well,
and that love is
everywhere, and that there's
this benign, benevolent
intelligence that's
kind of wrapped itself around
you, that bathes you in love,
and approval, and acceptance.
And then you see those
who've gone before you,
and you realize they never
died, and that they're intact.
In fact, they've taken on
the form and the essence that
pleases them most.
Their health is restored.
Their vitality is restored.
Their good looks are restored.
They're on new adventures.
They're on new discoveries.
They have new places to go.
They're excitedly telling
you all about this.
Your mind is just blown
to pieces in a joyful way.
The possibilities, the
infinite possibilities,
are all coming together.
You're starting
to remember things
that you had forgotten
during your life,
because we chose to forget
stuff during our lives,
so that we could kind
of have a reset button.
That's the amnesia.
And all of a sudden,
you've got memories
from other lifetimes, and other
loves, and other passions,
and other interests,
and this kaleidoscope
is being fulfilled, and the
dots are being connected,
and you're just like,
woohoo, oh my gosh.
It's just all so loving.
And then, you take a look
back over your shoulder,
and there's this devastation
in your wake on planet Earth.
There's these broken
hearts, and there's
this big hole where
your life once was,
and all the survivors.
They're just
distraught, and they're
in this horrific state of grief.
What do you think comes next?
You, more than anything,
want to reach out.
You want to talk to them.
You want to shout from the
mountain tops, I'm alive.
I'm alive.
It's awesome.
It's beautiful.
I see clearly now.
And you're going to see it too.
It's all going to make sense.
But your time and
space isn't done.
And you can see from
this elevated prospective
what their challenges are.
What their
trajectories of growth,
and discovery, and
joy still will be.
And so, you want to tell
them that it's awesome,
but you also don't want
to hasten their desire
to join you, because game on.
They're still going through
this fertile season of growth.
So you're very measured
in what you can share,
and what you share,
and so you tell
them both sides of
the coin, that it's
all so glorious and grand.
But believe me, on this
side of the equation,
on the other side
of time and space,
there's a line of folks
waiting to get back
into the jungles
of time and space.
Because from here, we
see how awesome it is.
We see how perfect it is.
We see that everyone's becoming
more, and falling in love,
and creating this
world of their dreams,
even though they don't
know their creator
So you want to tell
them, you're creating
right now as you go
on the fly, that you
have this divine
sense about you,
this divine power, that's
innate in all consciousness,
particularly of
the human variety.
And so, hang in there.
Tough it out.
We're going to be together soon.
And so, there's these 10 things
that the dead want to tell you.
Because from their perspective,
they now have all the answers.
Not all the answers.
There's still going
to be questions.
But enough answers to
give all of us blazing,
brilliant clarity, to kind of
get our groove on, and have
a roaring time in space while
the getting's still good.
This is the nucleus,
or the purpose,
that evolved as I began
elaborating on what was once
a Note From the Universe, just
a page long, that's now 200-page
book.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: I didn't prepare
you for this question,
but if you were Robin Williams,
and you were to write a note
back to us, who really, really
miss that man and thought
so much talent, and he
could've-- we all have our own
perspectives.
He could have gotten help,
but we miss him, his talent
and his person.
What would he said?
>>DOOLEY: There's virtually
no doubt in my mind
that he would echo all of
the things in the book.
And if you would see he could
have made other choices--
and I'm not passing judgment
in any way, shape, or form.
I can't imagine what he went
through, the torment, the hell,
the man-made hell, so to speak.
But he would want
everyone to know he's OK.
He would want everyone to know
that it was not a good choice,
because others emulate him.
Others model him.
Others are going through
their own misery right now.
And if Robin Williams
can do it, it's
maybe a respectable choice.
And he wouldn't want anyone
to follow in his footsteps.
He would remind all of
us that the greatness
that we admire in him is alive
in each and every one of us.
That he is no more
divine or gifted
than any single human being.
And that if we so choose,
the best of our lives
remains in front of all of us.
And so, weather the storm.
Hang in there.
You're going to die
anyway, you might say.
And create a chuckle or smile,
because life is fleeting.
And I say that to those--
I hear from a lot of people
who are suicidal.
It's like, you're
going to die anyway.
And in your mind at least,
it's forever and ever.
And so if you have another 10,
or 20, or 80 years on Earth,
it's nothing compared
to where you're going.
What's the hurry?
For the fact that you're
here, it's meaningful.
It's profoundly meaningful.
Life is not random chance.
We are not space dust
that collided and evolved
into walking upright.
That is patently, ridiculously,
offensively absurd.
And anyone can drill
down to the truths
that I've drilled
down to in this book,
because they're so benign.
I'm not trying to
create a religion here.
I'm saying life is beautiful.
We are powerful.
Eternal sparks of God.
Let's make hay.
That's the truths that
I'm claiming in the book,
and I'm not the first to
have made these declarations.
And so he is now our
greatest cheerleader.
And he is helping
where one could
help in any way he can
help to those on earth
while calculating
his next adventures,
and his next challenges.
Because challenges
are how we grow.
>>LISA: Yes.
So have you had people
read the book who
have contemplated suicide,
and turned their lives
around form--
>>DOOLEY: I'd like to think so.
It's only been out six
months, so I haven't heard
somebody say that on this book.
But I heard them say
that just yesterday
here at this Hay
House conference where
I was speaking, that
there was transformation,
that there was a rethinking,
that I saved them.
I hear that-- many authors
hear that many, many times.
And I remind them that it
wasn't me, that it was them.
And that it wasn't an accident
that they found my book,
or Wayne's book,
or your program.
>>LISA: When the student
ready, the teacher appears.
Yes.
>>DOOLEY: Exactly.
We're all kind of healers,
every single person.
>>LISA: Yes.
Speaking of healers, you
write beautifully about pets.
And why is it that
when the pet goes,
it reignites the
greatest, deepest loss.
what is that?
>>DOOLEY: It's the love
that's in all of us.
We are love beings.
It's all about love,
as chapter 10 says.
And truth is the
path through love.
And it's where we have
misunderstandings that we slip,
we fall, and we suffer to
profound degrees, agonies,
through misunderstanding.
And this applies to the love
we feel for our animals.
And as much as I can share, and
anyone can realize these truth
through themselves,
we are still,
I am still, hardwired
to the illusions.
And I had to put several
beloved dogs to sleep.
And the first one
was the worst one.
I was devastated,
about six years ago.
And I was shocked
at my reaction,
knowing what I feel like I know
about reality, to have been so
affected by the loss of my dog.
But any pain we feel regarding
anything, anything in life,
is like a big red flag
that we're missing
in understanding something.
And the pain, and in
this case the loss,
whether it is a pet, or
a person, or a habit,
or whatever, is a big red
flag that, hey, you're
really doing great, but
there's this little thing here
you're misunderstanding.
Because the pet's alive.
The pet's well.
Alive within the palm
of God, so to speak.
You'll meet again.
Everything's eternal.
Everything is ongoing.
And because you're
not seeing that,
because you're so
hardwired to the illusions,
in spite of your
theoretical wisdom,
until you get further
on board with the truth,
it's going to hurt
like the Dickens.
And that's the greatest gift.
Because it's through pain,
it's through suffering,
that we can realize,
hey, I can take my life
to another orbit with
greater and greater and more
profound truths.
>>LISA: Our beloved cat
of 15 years went away.
And we don't know
whatever happened,
but she never came back.
And we were-- right
before school one day.
We were really sad,
my daughter and I.
And we were just
very sad about her.
My daughter reaches
in her backpack.
And she's like, what
is this furry thing?
And it was our cat's collar.
And there's no way the collar
could have gotten in there.
It's her backpack she brings
to school every single day.
And there's just all
of our kitty's fur.
Just that moment, we broke down
by the sink, and we just said,
we see you.
Her name was Zen.
And we were like,
we see you Zen.
You're here.
She's such a healer too.
And animals have that ability,
to just-- anytime anyone
was sick, she would just sit
on you and absorb the fever,
or whatever the emotion.
She would sit on the area
of your body that hurt,
and she would just absorb.
Whatever.
And she's just such
an awesome cat.
And so we miss her.
But when you say they're
here, I believe you.
Because she manifested this
collar into my daughter's
backpack.
>>DOOLEY: Wow.
>>LISA: And I do believe you
that you can connect back
to them.
I want to believe you.
I do.
>>DOOLEY: I think the
truth being so benign,
being so simple, being
so absolute, when
we brush shoulders with it,
when we hear about it, when
we read in a book, or watch it
on the TV, or see it in a show,
we resonate.
And sometimes, we'll argue.
Sometimes, we'll say,
well, where's the proof?
well, who else said so?
Sometimes, we'll say,
what's your authority?
Don't be so critical, I
would advise most readers,
listeners, watchers.
If it feels right, and
you have the wherewithal
to connect a few logical
dots, like why wouldn't it
be true that we could connect?
I mean, if they're not
gone, they're not gone.
If there's no death,
there's no death.
And so of course, it's real.
And of course,
they're still there.
And they have other
adventures, but they're
loving us through our low
points and the times of need.
And that's quite a story.
>>LISA: Yes.
It was definitely a miracle.
We're going to take a look here
another video that talks about
how your words create
your end results.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-Where do you think your
good ideas come from?
Do you think they just
rain out of the sky,
and sometimes you're lucky,
and sometimes you're not?
You've never had one
that you didn't summon
with a vision, a
dream, a thought that
could not become a thing without
you having that bright idea.
You draw from the ether
people, players, circumstances,
courage, creativity,
inspiration, willpower.
Whatever you need for that
end result to become a thing,
it's delivered to you,
infused into your bones,
as you are physically
showing up.
And it doesn't just work
for the rich and famous,
although that's how they
became rich and famous.
Listen to your friends.
Listen to the ones who say life
is hard, and people are mean.
Listen to the ones who say
they have no free time.
These are their
end results, and it
doesn't matter that they didn't
know that they were their end
results.
Your friend who says,
I can't lose weight,
I just can't lose
weight, is always right.
The Universe is up there
watching and listening.
I heard you the
first 7,642 times.
Do not worry.
We're on it.
You will be in the wrong place
at the wrong time, predisposed
to the wrong food by the wrong
friends, with no will power
and slow metabolism.
Gotcha.
[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
Too many times after a talk,
somebody will come up to me
and say, Mike, I get
thoughts becoming things.
I totally get it.
I'm all over it.
I know attitude is everything.
I've always known
attitude is everything.
I love my life.
I love my wife.
I've got great kids.
I even love my work.
But Mike, I just can't
crack the money nut.
What is it?
I don't know what gives.
Everything I try,
it doesn't work.
No one in the history
of planet Earth
has ever cracked the
money nut who first said,
I can't crack the money nut.
Your words are your wand, as
Florence Scovel Shinn once
said.
Your words are your end results,
and the universe just marches.
That's how powerful you are.
The great news, on a
dime, you can change
the direction of your ship.
On a dime.
This is the story of
the prodigal child.
And I got to tell
you, heads up, I'm
a big time cherry picker
when it comes to the Bible.
If I like it, I buy it.
And if I don't, I reject it.
If I read the Koran,
it would be the same.
And I definitely do this
with Hallmark greeting cards.
If I find anything
that has truth,
that reveals life's beauty,
that tells me of my power, that
leaves no one behind, I buy it,
and I'd encourage all of you
to buy it.
You need no credentials
or further educations
to sense what is the truth.
And the story of the prodigal
child is one of those gems.
And if you don't know, it's the
story of the wayward son who
leaves his family and his
wealthy, wealthy, wealthy
father behind, and says,
I'm going to go out, Dad,
and do this on my own.
He goes out and makes a
huge mess of everything.
And he musters up the
courage to come back home
and say, Dad, I messed up.
Can I come home?
And in that instant,
his entire inheritance
is restored, much to the chagrin
of his dutiful brother who
stayed home all along.
And in the instant, you
ask the hard questions
revealing the mechanics
of manifestation,
that reveal that you pure,
total, God Almighty come
alive in the dream of life.
Your entire inheritance,
more than you can ever
spend this lifetime or in
ten thousand lifetimes,
is restored.
That's what that story is about.
Waking up to the truth.
With the truth, you're
set free, and you
can begin living deliberately
on this pathway to happiness.
And it can all start by
choosing words to serve you.
Just like the person who
says they can't lose weight,
you can say whatever you want.
But choose words that
reflect the dream you
you've always known was inside.
Living the life
you've always dreamed
you'd one day live as if
you were already living it.
Say things like, I love,
love, love my life.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: I love the
themes in all of what
you're talking about here.
It's basically the same
thing in different packages.
But people, to get
this simple concept
of what you just talked
about in that video,
that your words can
change your end results--
so most people say, I'm fat,
or I don't have any money,
or I can't afford
that, so that's the end
result that people create,
right, from saying whatever
it is they've said?
>>DOOLEY: Well, yeah.
Our end results are up to us.
And we can choose
deliberately what they are,
or we can tune in to pay
attention to what we're saying.
And when we hear ourselves
make these declarations,
life is hard, people are
mean, it's all a test,
we're being judged, I
don't have enough money,
I can't lose weight, we're
revealing to ourselves what
our present end results are.
And the Universe is like,
roger, gotcha, we're on it.
You'll be in the wrong place,
at the wrong time, predisposed
to the wrong food, with no
willpower, slow metabolism,
gotcha.
And so, if we don't like what
we catch ourselves saying,
we can deliberately
spark change.
This won't be enough.
But you can spark change
by making a declaration,
speaking of your life
as if it was already
the life of your dreams.
Speaking of yourself
as if you were already
the person of your dreams.
And then, you remember
step two, take action,
show up, baby steps.
Act as if you are
that person that
was the ideal way, that had--
>>LISA: Perfect metabolisms.
>>DOOLEY: Or metabolism,
or career of your dreams.
Speak your end results.
Visualize your end results.
You're always choosing
your end results.
And pay attention to
how you're behaving,
and hear what you're saying.
>>LISA: So what happens
when there's accidents,
or where there's
devastation, or things
happen that are uncontrollable?
What's the self-talk
at that point?
>>DOOLEY: Well, there
are no accidents.
Seeming accidents, so-called
accidents, crop up in our life
because they are a stepping
stone to a further place
that we did talk about,
that we did believe in,
that was our end result.
>>LISA: Meaning?
>>DOOLEY: Well, let me just
give you a hypothetical.
I live in Orlando.
And I want to go to Miami.
Miami's my end
result. Along the way,
I don't know who I'm
going to see on the road.
I don't know where I'm going
to stop for gas or for rest.
But all of these
unthought of experiences
are necessary for
the journey to get me
to where I was thinking
about, Orlando.
Now, a lot of people in life
have end results that are,
as we just said, life is
hard, people are mean,
it's all a test,
God decides-- all
of these things that
aren't true as reality,
as features of reality,
but they become
true for the person
claiming them.
So life is hard,
people are mean,
as you go through
your business, you're
going to find that
life is very hard,
and you're going to draw
into your realm mean people.
Or you might think life is
great, the universe loves me,
but I'm not good with math, and
money has always been elusive.
Now you've got
contradictory end results,
and so you're setting yourself
up for a kind of a quagmire,
where there will
be the unexpected.
But as we said about
paint a moment ago,
this is a great red flag.
This is like, hey, there's
a chink in your armor
that you didn't
even know you had.
But now there's been this slip,
this accident, this whatever,
that's telling you you can and
should ask for more clarity.
You should reexamine
your thoughts.
Pay more attention
to your words,
and get to a place of clarity.
And I would like to add also to
that, because a lot of people
will ask in my live
audiences, what
do you do when
everything's going well,
and you're feeling great
about life, and then wham,
you're blindsided by bad stuff?
And with a proper understanding
of the nature of reality,
including our choices
that brought us here,
including that we all
survive, we all rock and roll,
everyone beats cancer,
maybe not this lifetime,
but beyond in that light,
then all of a sudden,
from those perhaps
heightened perspectives,
you realize there
is no bad stuff.
There is no junk, gunk, or crap
that lands in anyone's life.
It's all like a stepping stone
to higher, greater, better
than you even knew existed.
That was otherwise unreachable
to you with your prior mindset.
So you know whether it's
cancer, or a car accident,
or a divorce, or whatever,
these are invitations
for you to go to a higher
orbit than you even knew
existed before.
And so long as you're not
kicking, and screaming,
and cursing, and resisting the
whole way, which just sets up
a war, you're just resisting
the entire universe,
which is futile--
>>LISA: Which is a lot of work.
>>DOOLEY: It's awful.
Then, you can open yourself
up to higher thinking,
to greater truths.
Which doesn't mean
capitulate to cancer,
or just say make
the best of the fact
that your maimed from
the car accident.
It's like, no, you're
not going to accept that.
But you will accept
what happened,
so that you can therefore
plant new seeds,
have a heightened perspective,
and live grander than ever
before.
>>LISA: So do you do that?
Do you set up what your next
step is through your words?
Do you practice all of this?
>>DOOLEY: I do the only
seemingly on the face
spiritual thing I do is every
morning before I go to work,
I visualize with the timer
in my office, my home office,
for about 4 and 1/2 minutes.
That's it.
The only deviation
from normal life.
Normal life, I would argue,
is very spiritual for me.
I mean, I do see
the good in people.
I do look for God in their eyes.
I do try to take the high road.
I'm kind, benevolent.
I'd like to think I am
in all those regards.
And I'm always aiming
for greater, bigger,
in my own personal,
private, rocking life,
and in reaching more
people with messages
that it resonate with
greater and greater numbers.
>>LISA: So where do
you go from here?
>>DOOLEY: I tell my audiences
in my crises 15 years ago,
I came up with four general end
results, wealth and abundance,
creative fulfilling work,
friends and laughter,
international travel.
And those will be my
guiding lights forever more.
I don't need anything
more specific than that.
Like, I'm going to write a book.
I'm going to do this.
Then you're messing
with the cursed house.
You're carrying the weight of
the world on your shoulders.
Now, I will write more books.
I will give more talks.
And I will knock on
more doors forever more.
But there may be a vehicle
of expression or a way
for me teach that's not
even on the radar right now.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>DOOLEY: And I would slam shut
the door on such possibilities
if I insisted on, I'm going
to write, I'm going to speak.
So I'm going to
knock on all doors,
and see what happens, while
commanding the universe
with my overall big
picture end results
of a rocking, happy,
joyful life, which
leaves room for
great relationships,
and my new young family.
Infinite possibilities.
>>LISA: You have a baby.
>>DOOLEY: I have a one year,
one-month-old baby girl.
I'm a first time dad.
>>LISA: Awesome.
It's so exciting, because
all that you've taught,
and all that you teach,
you get to now impart
upon this little one.
However, the mundane
does still occur.
You still have diapers.
And you still-- [LAUGHING]
>>DOOLEY: And that's
not so mundane, is it?
No, I think every moment,
it's all a miracle.
We don't have to do stuff.
We get to do.
That I get to change
one more pair of diapers
is like, what a crazy gift.
I didn't even know
to ask for the joy
that this girl has given me.
>>LISA: Aw.
>>DOOLEY: And it's part
of my amazing life.
And I want her to diversify.
I want her to enjoy life.
I want her to smell the
roses and see the miraculous
in the mundane.
>>LISA: Yes.
Now, I love what you
said here, because what
I got from this was, you don't
need to set big, huge goals.
You don't need to go after that
next million dollar pay raise.
You are happy with creating the
life that you have every day.
You're in that great
space of creating
every day what you love to do.
They're not these super peaks
in your life I'm seeing.
You're doing the slow
rise of greatness.
Do you feel that way?
You don't have these
super high dramas?
>>DOOLEY: Yeah.
Totally My number one lesson
in my full day workshop,
my trademark material, is
the ultimate end result
is always happiness.
And while that may
lack some luster--
I mean, what is happiness?
Everyone has to define
it for themselves.
That's why I say, go ahead
and have some priorities.
Like, for me, they were those
four objectives-- abundance,
travel, friends, and laughter.
So those are my priorities.
But there's no, this book,
that contract, that deal,
this person.
Then, you carry the weight of
the world on your shoulders.
So I have gigantic
dreams of happiness
that I color in with
details, but those details I
don't attach to.
That leaves room for
infinite possibilities.
>>LISA: And that's where the
insights come for the Notes
From the Universe.
Because you're writing
life in a wave,
but I don't see these super
high peaks and valleys.
Because if you set yourself up
for that, and you don't get--
>>DOOLEY: That hurts.
And then what?
And then, you have to up it?
As you go down these paths that
we're talking about, knocking
on doors, even if
at first, it's kind
of a sucky path
to a job you hate,
when you understand the
truth about reality,
you become a lightning
rod for serendipity.
All of a sudden, you're
on the yellow brick road
a couple of years later.
All of a sudden,
happiness is your gig.
And you're coloring it here,
and you're coloring it there.
And you're tweaking
the machinery.
And you've built a foundation,
which is all important.
Otherwise, your
success is precarious.
Otherwise, you feel like
it could be taken away.
All of a sudden,
you feel vulnerable.
But this steadier
approach, with happiness
as your light, priorities in
other areas, is the formula,
is the ticket.
>>LISA: Even though
you have things
like kids going off
to college, or having
to start a new job, or this one
implodes, and that one starts,
you just ride it
like it's the wave.
Setting your intentions
along the way,
making sure that your
language is in coherence
with who you're being
around it, and you just
create life that way.
>>DOOLEY: As a Note
From the Universe
once said, whether it's for
other people or yourself,
always wish for the best.
You can leave it that.
And then whatever
happens, know that it was.
And then, you don't
start labeling things.
That was bad.
I must be flawed.
I have an invisible,
limiting self-sabotage.
It's all good.
It's all playing to
your greater good.
See it as good.
Look for the gift.
And even if you don't know what
the gift was, it was imparted.
You don't have to
figure out how you
got where you are,
particularly if it's painful,
to otherwise figure out
how to move from it.
And that's kind of my lesson.
>>LISA: Beautiful.
Thank you so much for
giving us your wisdom.
>>DOOLEY: Thank you, Lisa.
>>LISA: And for hanging
out with me for the hour.
It's been wonderful.
>>DOOLEY: I've
enjoyed every minute.
Thank you so much.
>>LISA: If you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Mike Dooley, you
can go to gaiamtv.com.
And until then, I invite
you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]